Document already made Decisions to Decouple Blockid and PartSetHeader in ADR 005 (#482)
celestiaorg/lazyledger-core: docs/lazy-adr/adr-005-decouple-blockid-and-partsetheader.md

# ADR 005: Decouple the 'PartSetHeader' from the 'BlockID'

## Changelog

- 2021-08-01: Initial Draft

## Context

> Celestia has multiple commits to the block data via the `DataHash` and the `PartSetHeader` in the `BlockID`. As stated in the [#184](https://github.com/celestiaorg/lazyledger-core/issues/184), we no longer need the `PartSetHeader` for this additional commitment to the block’s data. However, we are still planning to use the `PartSetHeader` for block propagation during consensus in the short-medium term. This means that we will remove the `PartSetHeader` from as many places as possible, but keep it in the `Proposal` struct.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Celestia has multiple commits to the block data via the `DataHash` and the `PartSetHeader` in the `BlockID`. As stated in the [#184](https://github.com/celestiaorg/lazyledger-core/issues/184), we no longer need the `PartSetHeader` for this additional commitment to the block's data. However, we are still planning to use the `PartSetHeader` for block propagation during consensus in the short-medium term. This means that we will remove the `PartSetHeader` from as many places as possible, but keep it in the `Proposal` struct.
```

## Alternative Approaches

> It’s worth noting that there are proposed changes to remove the `PartSetHeader` entirely, and instead use the already existing commitment to block data, the `DataAvailabilityHeader`, to propagate blocks in parallel during consensus. Discussions regarding the detailed differences entailed in each approach are documented in that ADR’s PR. The current direction that is described in this ADR is significantly more conservative in its approach, but it is not strictly an alternative to other designs. This is because other designs would also require removal of the `PartSethHeader`, which is a project in and of itself due to the `BlockID` widespread usage throughout tendermint and the bugs that pop up when attempting to remove it. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It’s worth noting that there are proposed changes to remove the `PartSetHeader` entirely, and instead use the already existing commitment to block data, the `DataAvailabilityHeader`, to propagate blocks in parallel during consensus. Discussions regarding the detailed differences entailed in each approach are documented in that ADR's PR. The current direction that is described in this ADR is significantly more conservative in its approach, but it is not strictly an alternative to other designs. This is because other designs would also require removal of the `PartSethHeader`, which is a project in and of itself due to the `BlockID` widespread usage throughout tendermint and the bugs that pop up when attempting to remove it. 
```

# ADR 005: Decouple the `PartSetHeader` from the `BlockID`

## Changelog

- 2021-08-01: Initial Draft

## Context

> Celestia has multiple commits to the block data via the `DataHash` and the `PartSetHeader` in the `BlockID`. As stated in the #184, we no longer need the `PartSetHeader` for this additional commitment to the block’s data. However, in the short-medium term, we are still planning on using the `PartSetHeader` to be used for block propagation during consensus. This means that we will remove the `PartSetHeader` from as many places as possible, but keep it in the `Proposal` struct.

Reviewer 2: 1. Link to #184
2. This might be a nit, but can you use dumb quotes `'` instead of smart quotes `’` throughout the document?

Author: nice catch, link updated here https://github.com/celestiaorg/lazyledger-core/pull/482/commits/8421c27559531d6ae31bee4d58eb4a771d7a1bc2

and the switched to using normal quotes https://github.com/celestiaorg/lazyledger-core/pull/482/commits/103f53e71fcfeb7171d87069aac8da660044d2bd

Reviewer 2: Oh no, it looks like 103f53e changed backticks to `'`, so all the code blocks are now single-quoted. Can you change those back to backticks?

Reviewer 2: Actually, it looks like 103f53e _only_ changed backticks to single quotes, but not smart quotes to dumb quotes. (This is probably due to smart quotes being hard to search for in some editors, hence the whole reason to not use them!)

Reviewer: @adlerjohn next time better use the suggestion-tool for comments like this.

> Celestia has multiple commits to the block data via the 'DataHash' and the 'PartSetHeader' in the 'BlockID'. As stated in the [#184](https://github.com/celestiaorg/lazyledger-core/issues/184), we no longer need the 'PartSetHeader' for this additional commitment to the block’s data. However, in the short-medium term, we are still planning on using the 'PartSetHeader' to be used for block propagation during consensus. This means that we will remove the 'PartSetHeader' from as many places as possible, but keep it in the 'Proposal' struct.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Celestia has multiple commits to the block data via the `DataHash` and the `PartSetHeader` in the `BlockID`. As stated in the [#184](https://github.com/celestiaorg/lazyledger-core/issues/184), we no longer need the `PartSetHeader` for this additional commitment to the block’s data. However, we are still planning to use the `PartSetHeader` for block propagation during consensus in the short-medium term. This means that we will remove the `PartSetHeader` from as many places as possible, but keep it in the `Proposal` struct.
```

## Alternative Approaches

> It’s worth noting that there are proposed changes to remove the 'PartSetHeader' entirely, and instead use the already existing commitment to block data, the 'DataAvailabilityHeader', to propagate blocks in parallel during consensus. Discussions regarding the detailed differences entailed in each approach are documented in that ADR’s PR. The current direction that is described in this ADR is significantly more conservative in its approach, but it is not strictly an alternative to other designs. This is because other designs would also require removal of the 'PartSethHeader', which is a project in and of itself due to the 'BlockID' widespread usage throughout tendermint and the bugs that pop up when attempting to remove it. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It’s worth noting that there are proposed changes to remove the `PartSetHeader` entirely, and instead use the already existing commitment to block data, the `DataAvailabilityHeader`, to propagate blocks in parallel during consensus. Discussions regarding the detailed differences entailed in each approach are documented in that ADR’s PR. The current direction that is described in this ADR is significantly more conservative in its approach, but it is not strictly an alternative to other designs. This is because other designs would also require removal of the `PartSethHeader`, which is a project in and of itself due to the `BlockID` widespread usage throughout tendermint and the bugs that pop up when attempting to remove it. 
```

## Decision

> While we build other better designs to experiment with, we will continue to implement the design specified here as it is not orthogonol. https://github.com/celestiaorg/lazyledger-core/pull/434#issuecomment-869158788

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While we build other better designs to experiment with, we will continue to implement the design specified here as it is not orthogonal. https://github.com/celestiaorg/lazyledger-core/pull/434#issuecomment-869158788
```

## Detailed Design

- [X] Decouple the BlockID and the PartSetHeader [#441](https://github.com/celestiaorg/lazyledger-core/pull/441)

> - [ ] Remove the BlockID from every possible struct other than the 'Proposal'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] Remove the BlockID from every possible struct other than the `Proposal`
```

>   - [X] Stop signing over the 'PartSetHeader' while voting [#457](https://github.com/celestiaorg/lazyledger-core/pull/457)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - [X] Stop signing over the `PartSetHeader` while voting [#457](https://github.com/celestiaorg/lazyledger-core/pull/457)
```

>   - [X] Remove the 'PartSetHeader' from the Header [#457](https://github.com/celestiaorg/lazyledger-core/pull/457)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - [X] Remove the `PartSetHeader` from the Header [#457](https://github.com/celestiaorg/lazyledger-core/pull/457)
```

  - [X] Remove the `PartSetHeader` from VoteSetBits, VoteSetMaj23, and `state.State` [#479](https://github.com/celestiaorg/lazyledger-core/pull/479)
  - [ ] Remove the `PartSetHeader` from other structs

## Status

> {Accepted}

Reviewer 2: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3290375/127792108-5ada9cb8-62d5-4e2e-b782-5f26657567b9.png)

Author: sorry, I assumed that it was already accepted as we've already merged the implementation to master

https://github.com/celestiaorg/lazyledger-core/pull/441#pullrequestreview-709054968

updated in https://github.com/celestiaorg/lazyledger-core/pull/482/commits/49315e6b087213e4263eafb7dd273a2bd80c1ef5

Reviewer 2: Just joking 😂

>   - [ ] Remove the 'PartSetHeader' from other structs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - [ ] Remove the `PartSetHeader` from other structs
```
